the case of the cancellation
of david dobrik is not
important because of the conflicts it
has created
and it is not important because of the
questions that have been raised
it's important because the questions
nobody's asking
it's important precisely
for all the things that are not
controversial
that are passing us by unquestioned and
unchallenged
david dobrik never had a job interview
at google he was never hired
to be a presenter at youtube
now if david dubrick had gone
given an interview and been hired by a
tv station
to provide commentary on current events
nobody would be surprised if today
he had been fired by that tv station or
by that radio station
because they said well this was the
contract we signed with them
this was the sort of images he was
supposed to maintain this was his job
whatever the details the case may be i
think we all understand very well
the relationship of employer to employee
and that if he had been hired by a tv
station as a broadcaster
as a performer as an actor as a host as
a personality
right he would have all the benefits of
being an employee which includes not
just a regular paycheck
healthcare probably union membership
maybe even a lawyer
to defend his interests and conflicts of
this type
right and he would have disadvantages
also he would have a relationship of
authority
to someone who was his boss there would
be someone he answered to
there'd be someone in the corporate
hierarchy there'd be someone who had
final cut decision
on what did and didn't make it into the
show
when the broadcast came right
none of us want to question just how
different
the relationship is between being a
youtube personality
and youtube as a technology
because youtube is not a broadcaster
it's not a television station
it's not a radio station it's not your
boss none of us
showed up for an interview and were
hired by youtube and youtube's
relationship to us
is not of employer to employee
i think there is a very very important
parallel case to be considered
in the legality or illegality of uber
uber and lyft these are companies that
compete with taxi cab services around
the world
during the years 2019 and 2020
there was a storm of controversy
especially in the state of california
about to what extent uber and lyft
these taxicab like companies that exist
through the internet through mobile
phone connections
to what extent they would be forced to
recognize
their employees as employees to take on
the role
of employer with all of its
responsibilities all of its powers
all of its advantages and disadvantages
to what extent
would the people who earned money
driving a taxi
for this company be entitled to the
benefits
that for centuries
taxi cab companies have provided to
their drivers
why was there this special exception for
uber and lyft
the answer was that uber and lyft
presented themselves not as an employer
not as a company not as a company that
owns a gold mine
and then employs people as miners and
takes on responsibility
in case that miner gets injured to pay
for them to go to the hospital
no no no no no what uber and lyft wanted
you to think
was that they had developed a technology
that could now
exist in your life as invisibly as the
word processor
right this is just a piece of software
this is just a piece of software that
sits on your phone and allows
you as an isolated individual to get in
touch with
and have a relationship with another
isolated individual you get to pay that
person
to drive their car and all uber does
all the corporation does is sit back and
keep a percentage
because their technology facilitated the
connection
between you a very profitable
arrangement for the company
an arrangement in which they do not have
to take any of the responsibilities
financial or otherwise as employers
right and the drivers
don't have to take on the responsibility
of being an employee
so if they get sick
their employer does not provide them
with sick pay
they also don't have a boss they can
call
to make up an excuse for being sick
there is no call
nobody is going to ask anyone who drives
to those companies if they decide to
just stop driving
for two weeks they decide to just go on
vacation just
they're sick they stopped driving their
car no questions are asked
nobody to answer to nobody's gonna check
are you really sick
and nobody is going to pay them a dime
for the time they're spending
when they're not working right year 2020
was eventful i think what a lot of
people didn't hear
was how that legal and political
controversy came to its conclusion
in california and it came to a
conclusion with a vote
the people of california were asked to
vote on a proposition
a referendum if you will for whether or
not there should be a special exception
made to the laws so that uber and lyft
could continue
in this way employing people
without legally recognizing them as
their employees
and the companies involved uber and lyft
said if
you don't vote for this we're leaving
california
we cannot do business it is not
affordable for us and it's not
affordable for you as consumers
to actually pardon me take on all the
responsibilities of an employer employee
relationship the people voted
the corporations won and so
uber and lyft get to exist
not as an employer but just as a
technology
in the same sense you have a word
process right
now what is the relationship of david
dobrik
to youtube okay nobody's questioning
the relationship of him to his audience
my relationship to my audience is really
no different
than if i were a corporate employee in a
broadcast company it's surreal
but it's true i know a lot of people
probably relate to david dobrik
from audience to broadcaster the same
way they would relate to
someone employed by the mtv company or
some other
big corporate tv content creator right
but that has nothing to do with david
dobrik's relationship
to youtube youtube never interviewed
david dobrik he never was
an employee david dobrik
was for youtube a customer
in precisely the same sense that you are
a customer
of your email service whenever you enter
in your password
and check your email all right now i do
not like
david dobrik i don't just mean i dislike
his content
i dislike him as a person i dislike
everything he's done with his life
when i look at the videotape evidence
that created this controversy
i feel absolutely nothing but contempt
for the young men who choose to live
their lives this way
and i can't understand why anyone would
consider it
entertaining this is the apotheosis of
stupidity
everything about it i i don't like the
drinking i don't like the
excuse for humor involved and no i don't
like the sexuality i don't like the way
it relates to women i don't like the way
treats i don't like any of it
all right however
there are some people in this audience
who don't like me
there are some people who disapprove of
my sex life
in the last seven years i have very
publicly been going through a divorce
and you can imagine as it's taken seven
years and still isn't over yet
it's what you call a difficult divorce
my ex-wife has not made it easy
do you think my youtube channel should
be canceled
should be shut down because some people
are offended by what they know however
imperfect however one-sided
what they think they know about my sex
life
about my divorce what about my email
account
what if one day i turn on my computer
and i can't access my email account
because a little window pops up
and the company that owns the email
service says hey
we don't want to do business with you
anymore we think you
and your sex life have a bad reputation
how would you feel if you suddenly were
closed off from and cut off from your
email account
you think it's a human right but it's
not
david dobrik's relationship to his
youtube channel
is precisely the same legally as
your relationship to your email account
you
are not an employee of your email
account
you are the user of a piece
of software and you feel rightly or
wrongly
that you have the right to continue
using that software
regardless of the sorted details of your
private life
now many decades ago in pretty much
every
western country it became an established
practice that your employer would not
judge you
and would not fire you for what you did
in your private life in your sex life
unless it somehow interfered with
or involved what you did at the office
or what you did at the factory
so a lot of you guys may not believe
this
but there are innumerable men who are
facing charges and going to court and
even going to prison
for sex crimes
and their employers will say whether
they work
at a gold mine digging up or out of the
ground
or just work they answer telephones at a
call center
no matter what your job is where the
employer says
we have a human resources manual and
whatever problem you're going through
this is your private life it's none of
our business it didn't happen at the
office
it wasn't between two employees so you
can keep coming to the gold mine and we
are not even gonna
ask all right like think about that okay
employers do not presume
to judge employees the way
youtube presumes to judge
its users its broadcasters the way
youtube
presumes to silence and kick
off and punish and demonetize
its broadcasters and we all know
no matter how little we sympathize with
david dobrik and for me
it's zero i have zero sympathy for i
have my own biases
but we know youtube has heard
less than one side of the story
we all know how these controversies go
no matter how despicable the person is
whether it's inissian or jacqueline
glenn or any
whether it's me whether it's my story
whether it's what i've been through
in the last 10 years all right you know
the executives at youtube are not
going to hear both sides of the story
they're not going to carry out the
equivalent of a criminal investigation
they are not even going to treat you as
innocent
until proven guilty their attitude is
where there's smoke there's fire there's
smoke
meaning public controversy of some kind
therefore
put water on it dose the fire shut down
the youtube channel
move on okay
this could happen to you
and it's not just youtube
we need to in a really profound way
question the relationship of the creator
to the almost living tools
that we rely on for our creativity
all right books change
the world terrible people
write terrible books that have terrible
consequences millions of people have
died
millions of people have killed each
other over what's
written down in black ink on white
paper and this ain't something new all
right
and people kill themselves in other ways
they buy books that are full of advice
about
weight loss health care spirituality
cleansing
how to cure your depression how to cure
your acne people buy
self-help books that ruin their lives
and may even kill them
and people read books of philosophy and
decide to go out
and kill others okay books are dangerous
they always have been and that's partly
because some books
are written by dangerous people with
dangerous intentions
do you think those people
should be shut down and censored
by their own word processor because we
have the ability to do that
we have the ability for the word
processor to have a little window come
up
the same way david dobrik and anissia
and all these other people had a little
window come up
and say guess what you're too edgy
you're too offensive
the way monkey jones had his whole
youtube career disappear
and evaporate oh you crossed a line and
there's
you don't get a day in court we don't
hear your side of the story
right we can have the word processor
shred your manuscript
before you had a chance to publish it we
can have your
email service close down and deprive you
of the ability to speak to your
publisher
to speak to your own mom and dad for
many of us email's the only way we have
to keep in contact with people it's part
of your work life it's part of your
personal life
but as a creator as a creative writer as
a creative person
our relationship to the word processor
to the email account to the blog
to the youtube channel that is not
supposed to be a relationship of
employer to employee i
do not work for youtube any more than i
work
for my word processor or my piece of
paper
or my pen these are my tools
but we are living in an era of history
when for the first time the tools
can silence the author